---
title: "Yale graduate student wins HTRC award"
date: May 29, 2019
thumbnail: /assets/images/news/htrc-pages.jpg
alt: Thumbnails of nineteenth-century texts from HathiTrust
caption: "HathiTrust page thumbnails for Tales of Peter Parley about America. Photo credit: Stephen Krewson."
categories:
  - Announcement
tags:
  - Visual Analysis
spotlight: false
image_layout: simple
teaser: |
  Congratulations to Stephen Krewson, recipient of an Advanced Collaborative Support award from the HathiTrust Research Center. Krewson received the award to expand on his work with large-scale image and metadata extraction.
---
Yale graduate student Stephen Krewson has received an Advanced Collaborative Support (ACS) award from the HathiTrust Research Center (HTRC) for his work on large-scale image and metadata extraction. Krewson, a PhD candidate in English, received his MS in Computer Science from Yale in 2018.

Krewson's project, "Deriving Basic Illustration Metadata," aims to identify all pictorial elements in educational texts from 1800-1850 in order to explore the interplay between progressive education and print media in the early nineteenth century. The resulting research will characterize the extent to which wood engravings and other reprographic materials were shared among educational publishers. During the award period, Krewson will extract specific features from page images, such as illustration location, using advances in machine learning. 

The project intends to use the process developed to identify pictorial elements to motivate a new metadata field that describes the location and type of illustrations on the page. An ultimate goal of the project is to move toward “machine-read” texts, where the data generated by classifiers and dimensionality reduction techniques are bundled as metadata with the corresponding volumes and made available to future research.

Congratulations, Stephen!

For more on the award, visit <a href='https://www.hathitrust.org/hathitrust-research-center-awards-five-acs-projects' target='_blank'>HathiTrust's announcement</a>.
