---
title: "Present at the inaugural CT DH Conference, February 2020"
date: September 1, 2019
thumbnail: /assets/images/news/ct-dh-conference.jpg
image: /assets/images/banners/ct-dh-banner2400x1450.jpg
alt: A lighthouse in front of a slightly cloudy, blue sky in New Haven
categories:
  - Announcement
image_layout: simple
teaser: |
  Apply to present at the first-ever Connecticut Digital Humanities Conference. CT DH endeavors to bring to together a network of practitioners committed to advancing collaborative scholarship in digital humanities research and pedagogy across the New England region. Proposals are due October 1.
---

### Call for Papers
We are delighted to invite proposals for the inaugural Connecticut Digital Humanities Conference (CT DH), which will take place at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut on February 28-29, 2020. 

CT DH endeavors to bring together a network of practitioners committed to advancing collaborative scholarship in digital humanities research and pedagogy across the New England region. CT DH will provide individuals across New England who are interested in digital humanities with an opportunity to learn new techniques and skills, hear about their colleagues’ projects, and become part of a vibrant and diverse community of scholars and practitioners. We especially welcome proposals that address digital humanities & teaching.

We invite contributions from faculty researchers, unaffiliated scholars, librarians, technologists, and undergraduate and graduate students. We encourage those proposing sessions to consider formats beyond the traditional 20-minute paper panel, such as roundtables, multi-speaker panels, lightning talks, and digital demonstrations. Proposals should be less than 300 words in length and should describe the 
1. proposed topic, 
2. session format, 
3. requested time length, 
4. names and affiliations of participants, and 
5. anticipated audience for the session.

**Proposals are due October 1, 2019. Presenters will be notified of acceptance in November.**

For more information and to submit a proposal, visit <a href='https://ctdh.io/call-for-proposals/' target='_blank'>the conference website</a>.

### Keynote Address
The organizing committee is pleased to announce that <a href='https://jwernimont.com/' target='_blank'>Jacqueline Wernimont</a>, Distinguished Chair of Digital Humanities and Social Engagement & Associate Professor of Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies at Dartmouth College, will deliver the keynote address.
 
*Conference organizers include: Lyndsay Bratton (Connecticut College), Catherine DeRose (Yale University), Anke Finger (University of Connecticut), 
Jason Jones (Trinity College), Tom Scheinfeldt (University of Connecticut), Rachel Schnepper (Wesleyan University), Andrew White (Wesleyan University)*
