---
title: GIS Day 2016
date: November 17, 2016
thumbnail: /assets/images/events/GIS.jpg
caption: ""
categories: 
  - Symposia
tags:
  - Geospatial Analysis
spotlight: false 
image_layout: landscape
teaser: |
  "Yale GIS Day 2016 November 17 from 8:30am-6:00pm, Kroon Hall and CSSSI Celebrate mapping innovations with the Yale GIS community. This day-long celebration — part of the international GIS Day, which..."
---

### Yale GIS Day 2016
*November 17 from 8:30am-6:00pm, Kroon Hall and CSSSI*  

Celebrate mapping innovations with the Yale GIS community. This day-long celebration — part of the international GIS Day, which showcases applications of geographic information systems (GIS) technology worldwide — will include a GIS Colloquium, a Map Exhibition, training and networking opportunities, and a GIS Day Cake Celebration. Learn what is happening and how you can get involved in the geospatial world at Yale.
   
**To register to attend all or part of the day, please go to: https://yalegisday.eventbrite.com**
   
---
    
Do you have a map you'd like to showcase at the event?
    
**[Submit your map](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A__yale.us14.list-2Dmanage.com_track_click-3Fu-3D2f90e0412cf65c0527d766de3-26id-3D654dd14e92-26e-3D766595d985&amp;d=CwMFaQ&amp;c=-dg2m7zWuuDZ0MUcV7Sdqw&amp;r=1E0f666jBqrEJETUlnVCZp-bWc10LXSCeOYIVUPPuyE&amp;m=1JXdGAr5ooaqhXNVkJVw6B2b89DWzAjR0dvY4s2HTUM&amp;s=VD38BEuIzj0YR1eRUsMIS-JBfvi52IWhCaPjXAmpyEA&amp;e=) for display in the digital map exhibition by Tuesday, November 15.**

Your map can be anything from a homework assignment to a research project. Maps will be displayed throughout the day on large computer monitors on the top floor of Kroon Hall and in CSSSI. Awards will be presented to the maps with the most votes!
    
### Schedule of Events:
*The digital Map Exhibition will be on display in The Knob throughout the day*
   
**BURKE AUDITORIUM, KROON HALL**

8:30am – 9:00am: Light Breakfast
9:00am – 11:30am: Yale GIS Colloquium: Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow in GIS

Invited speakers include:
 * Theodore R. Holford, Susan Dwight Bliss, Professor of Biostatistics and Professor of Statistics
 * William Rankin, Assistant Professor of the History of Science
 * Meredith Reba, Lab Manager, Seto Lab
 * Larry Bonneau, Manager, Yale Center for Earth Observation and Research Associate, Dept. of Geology and Geophysics
 * C. Dana Tomlin, Ph.D., Professor (Adjunct) of Forestry &amp; Environmental Studies.

11:30am – 12:30pm: Lunch (provided in The Knob in Kroon Hall for registered participants)

**CENTER FOR SCIENCE AND SOCIAL SCIENCE INFORMATION**

12:30pm – 2:30pm: Workshop: Web-mapping with CARTO (registration is required - please see above for link)

**THE KNOB, KROON HALL**

2:30pm – 4:00pm: People's Choice Map Prize &amp; GIS Day Cake Celebration
4:00pm – 5:00pm: MapChat Social with the Spatial Collective

*Yale GIS Day 2016 is sponsored by the Center for Science and Social Science Information, the School of Forestry &amp; Environmental Studies, the Digital Humanities Lab, and The Spatial Collective.*