---
title: Photo Management with Tropy
date: 2017-11-07
time: 2:00 pm
location: Bass Library, L06
thumbnail: /assets/images/events/photo-data.jpg
alt: Nine black-and-white photographs are displayed across several screens, with some objects circled. The photographs display large gatherings of people outside at what appear to be political demonstrations.
registerurl: http://schedule.yale.edu/event/3629405
categories:
  - Meetup
tags:
  - Data Management
teaser: >
  This workshop will provide a broad overview of Tropy.
---
<a href='https://tropy.org/' target='_blank'>Tropy</a> is desktop software designed to help researchers organize and describe their research photographs. When researchers return from trips to the archives, they often bring back hundreds or thousands of photos, but have no system for keeping these photos manageable. Tropy allows you to attach information to your photos, transcribe or take notes on them, and categorize them using lists and tags. This workshop will walk through the software, giving a demonstration of what Tropy can do and the ways it can be integrated into your research workflow.

Some of the new features in Tropy 1.0 include:

- The template editor, where you can create templates to match your archives’ needs
- The selection tool, which allows you to make permanent selections in a photo that can accommodate their own notes and basic metadata
- Export to JSON-LD
- Windows machines will be available for use. Participants are also welcome to bring their own computers.

The workshop is open to all Yale students, faculty, and staff, but space is limited. No previous experience with Tropy is required.

### Bio
Abigail Mullen is a project manager in the Research division at the Roy Rosenzweig Center for History and New Media, where she works primarily with Tropy. She received her PhD in world history from Northeastern University.
