---
title: CT GIS Day at Yale
date: 2017-11-15
time: 8:30 am - 6:30 pm
location: Kroon Hall, Beinecke
thumbnail: /assets/images/events/GIS.jpg
alt: Vector image of eart with white dots mapping out the continents.
registerurl: https://csssi.yale.edu/gisday2017
categories:
  - Symposium
tags:
  - Spatial Analysis
teaser: >
  Explore mapping innovations with the Connecticut and Yale GIS communities.
---
Explore mapping innovations with the Connecticut and Yale GIS communities. This day-long celebration–part of international GIS Day, which showcases applications of geographic information systems (GIS) technology worldwide–includes panel discussions, presentations, workshops, networking opportunities, and a GIS Day Cake Reception.

The event is open to the entire community. For the full schedule, please visit <a href='https://csssi.yale.edu/gisday2017' target='_blank'>the official page</a>.

### Poster and Story Map Contests
There will be a digital poster session on display throughout the day as well as a digital Story Map contest. Submit your map and you may win an Amazon gift card! Deadline to submit: 11:59pm, November 12.

<a href='https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdWMBraV7VEy7lledSvHw1sts7HMRPFmPfaStdzYJ_EarutRg/viewform' target='_blank'>Submit to the CT GIS Day Poster Contest</a>

<a href='https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf5fSIyfhDeWqq4p3Z-VAmPJHAVaGHIv9nXCusHWeWvlyJNMw/viewform?c=0&w=1' target='_blank'>Submit to the CT GIS Day Story Map Contest</a>

### Google Earth Engine Lightning Talks
Submit a proposal for a 3-minute Lightning Talk on an Earth Engine Project. The talks will be presented during a breakout session at CT GIS Day. You may choose to introduce a spatial analysis project that uses Earth Engine or delve more deeply into a geospatial aspect of the work. Deadline to submit: 11:59pm, November 12.

<a href='https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdyFiW1Mkp7jgmNE-0wWUNE9WewSnvigwV4Beu06r_NBN2exw/viewform' target='_blank'>Submit a Lightning Talk proposal</a>

### Planners and Sponsors
CT GIS Day at Yale is coordinated by planners from Yale University Library, Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, Yale Digital Humanities Lab, The Spatial Collective, University of Connecticut, Central Connecticut State University, Eastern Connecticut State University, Western Connecticut Council of Governments (WestCOG), and Connecticut Metropolitan Council of Governments (MetroCOG).

CT GIS Day at Yale is sponsored by the Yale University Library, the Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, Yale Digital Humanities Lab, Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library, and the New England Chapter of the Urban & Regional Information Systems Association (NEURISA).
