---
title: "Highways, Byways and Railways: Mapping Frederick Douglass' Journey in Britain"
date: 2018-02-07
time: 2:30 pm
location: Bass Library, L01
thumbnail: /assets/images/events/f-douglass.jpg
caption: 'Portrait of Frederick Douglass (1860) courtesy of the Yale Beinecke Library'
alt: Portrait of Frederick Douglass, 1860 
categories: 
  - Talks
tags:
  - Geospatial Analysis
spotlight: false 
image_layout: simple
teaser: |
  Join us for an Office Talk with Hannah-Rose Murray as she presents a map of black abolitionist speaking locations. 
---

African American abolitionists made an indelible mark on nineteenth-century Britain. Their lectures were held in famous meeting halls, taverns, the houses of wealthy patrons, theatres, and churches across the country; Britons inevitably and unknowably walk past sites with a rich history of Black activism every day. In this talk, Hannah-Rose will outline some of the benefits digital humanities can give social historians, and how her PhD research - which focuses on African American abolitionists in Britain - has been enriched by digital mapping techniques. For example, recording and visualizing Frederick Douglass' journey around Britain not only highlights his exhausting lecturing schedule, but also the extensive abolitionist network he helped to forge. He travelled to Britain at a time of great industrial change and thus he was able to tap into new transport links slowly emerging in Britain. He wrote on his return to America he had "made use of all the various means of conveyance, by land and sea, from town to town, and city to city" and travelled the length and breadth of the country. He had "journeyed upon highways, byways, railways, and steamboats" and stated, "I have myself gone, I might say, with almost electric speed." The rapidity of the railway boom was unprecedented and transformed British society: journeys were faster, time was standardized, ship-building increased, trade was made easier and quicker between towns and the countryside. Recognizing this, Douglass argued in Leeds in 1846, that "what is uttered this day in the Music Hall of Leeds, will, within fourteen days resound in Massachusetts." Hannah-Rose will also outline the website she has created and two maps highlighting abolitionist speaking locations, the main focus of which was to make black American contributions to British society more visible. 

Dr. Hannah-Rose Murray received a Ph.D. from the Department of American and Canadian Studies at the University of Nottingham and is a visiting Fellow at the Gilder Lehrman Centre at Yale University. Her research focuses on African American transatlantic visits to Britain between the 1830s and the 1890s. She argues that men and women like Frederick Douglass and Ida B. Wells made a huge impact on British society, and educated millions of people about the brutal nature of American slavery and lynching. They challenged British and American racism, and forever changed the course of transatlantic history. Murray has created a website dedicated to their experiences and has mapped their speaking locations across Britain, showing how black men and women travelled far and wide, from large towns to small fishing villages, to raise awareness of American slavery. She has written about black performance, celebrity and networking strategies in Britain, and has organized numerous community events including talks, plays and exhibitions on both sides of the Atlantic. Murray's maps and research can be viewed on her website: <a href='http://frederickdouglassinbritain.com/FrederickDouglassMap/' target='_blank'>Frederick Douglass Map</a>   