---
title: "<em>In-Sync, De-Sync, Re-Sync</em>: Yale School of Architecture North Gallery Talk"
date: 2021-10-29
dates:
  - 2021-10-29
time: 6:30-8 p.m. EDT
location: Zoom
thumbnail: /assets/images/events/sync-talk.jpg
alt: Black text reading "In-Sync," "De-Sync," and "Re-Sync" against a white background
registerurl: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/in-sync-de-sync-re-sync-yale-school-of-architecture-north-gallery-talk-tickets-194624897307
categories:
  - Talk
teaser: |
  Please join us for an online discussion of <em>In-Sync, De-Sync, Re-Sync</em>, the currently running exhibition at the Yale School of Architecture (YSoA)’s North Gallery. The talk will introduce the exhibition and allow the invited designers and participants to reflect on its themes of technology, time, and synchronization. 
---

### Overview
Please join us for an online discussion of *In-Sync, De-Sync, Re-Sync*, the currently running exhibition at the Yale School of Architecture (YSoA)’s North Gallery. The talk will introduce the exhibition and allow the invited designers and participants to reflect on its themes of technology, time, and synchronization.  

### Event Speakers  
1. EXTENTS  
- Cyrus Peñarroyo (Assistant Professor, Taubman College of Architecture + Urban Planning, University of Michigan)  
- McLain Clutter (Chair of Architecture and Associate Professor, Taubman College of Architecture + Urban Planning, University of Michigan)  

2. Outpost Office   
- Ashley Bigham (Assistant Professor, Knowlton School of Architecture, The Ohio State University)  
- Erik Herrmann (Assistant Professor, Knowlton School of Architecture, The Ohio State University)  

3. A/P practice  
- Maya Alam (Founding Partner) 
- Daniele Profeta (Architecture Program Director, Syracuse University [Florence])  
 
4. Mark Foster Gage Architects  
- Mark Foster Gage (Associate Professor, Yale School of Architecture)  
 
5. MILLIØNS (TBC)  
- Zeina Koreitem (Design Critic, Harvard University Graduate School of Design; Design Faculty, SCI-Arc)  
- John May (Director of the Master in Design Studies Program and Assistant Professor of Architecture, Harvard University Graduate School of Design)  

### About *In-Sync, De-Sync, Re-Sync*
*In-Sync, De-Sync, Re-Sync* examines the unprecedented connection of people and information through contemporary technology, as well as the frictions and disconnections that persist in this technology’s usage. The exhibition is curated by Timothy Wong, Joshua Tan, Sangji Han, Dominiq Oti, and Haorong Lee, with graphic design by Han Gao. More information can be found on the <a href="https://syncsync.cargo.site/" target="_blank">exhibition website</a>.

*In-Sync, De-Sync, Re-Sync* will be running at the YSoA North Gallery from Oct. 18 to Nov. 12. The Architecture Gallery is currently open to the Yale community (active ID holders) from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and from 10 a.m.-5 p.m. Saturday. Members of the general public may visit by appointment and must submit a vaccine attestation form. To make an appointment, please contact Andrew Benner, Director of Exhibitions, at [andrew.benner@yale.edu](mailto:andrew.benner@yale.edu).

### Registration
This event is open to the public, but registration is required. To register, please visit <a href="https://www.eventbrite.com/e/sync-artist-talk-yale-school-of-architecture-north-gallery-exhibition-sync-tickets-194624897307" target="_blank">the Eventbrite page for the talk</a>.

*The* In-Sync, De-Sync, Re-Sync *exhibition is cosponsored by YSoA, the Center for Collaborative Arts and Media (CCAM), the Yale Digital Humanities Lab (DHLab), the Tsai Center for Innovative Thinking at Yale (Tsai CITY), and the Blended Reality Laboratory.*
