---
title: "Workshop Series: AI Tools for Creative Practice"
date: 2023-10-03
dates:
  - 2023-10-03
  - 2023-10-10
time: 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m. EDT
location: Online
thumbnail: /assets/images/events/ai-tools.jpg
alt: Photograph of two stools in an art studio, one with a tablet on top and the other with a can of paint on top
registerurl: https://yaleconnect.yale.edu/events?group_ids=73165
categories:
  - Workshop
tags:
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - Training
  - Visual Analysis
teaser: >
  Join the Haas Arts Library and the DHLab for an exciting two-part workshop series on using AI art tools for creative practice.
---
### AI Tools for Creative Practice: How to Become an Informed Creator and Consumer of AI-Generated Images
Learn how to use AI art tools for creative practice at this exciting two-part workshop series, in collaboration with the Haas Arts Library and the DHLab! Whether you're an artist, writer, designer, or simply curious about the intersection of technology and creativity, this workshop is for you. Join us as we explore the limitless potential of AI in the creative realm.  

*Note:* Although the two workshop sessions require separate registrations, we highly recommend registering for both as they are intended to build off of each other.  

#### Part 1: Exploring Visual Literacy and AI  
AI-generated images are everywhere—whether we are aware of them or not. In the first session of this workshop series, we will dive into visual literacy and AI. We will discuss how concerns of privacy, ownership, and consent are brought to the surface through new AI technology and come away with a better understanding of how to engage with visual images in an age where the line between image and reality is blurred.  

#### Part 2: Unleashing Creative Inspiration with AI Tools  
The second part of this workshop will provide an overview of generative AI tools that can be used to enhance your creative practice. Delve into the history and techniques of generative AI to understand how AI art tools work, then try them out yourself with guided examples.  
  
### About the Instructors  
**Tess Colwell** (she/her) is the Arts Librarian for Research Services at Robert B. Haas Family Arts Library. In that role, she supports student research in the Schools of Art & Architecture and the History of Art Department.  

**Gavi Levy Haskell** (they/she) is the DH Developer in the DHLab. Gavi is also a Ph.D. candidate in Yale’s History of Art Department, where they are finishing their dissertation on visual narrative. Their B.A. is in art history and computer science from Smith College, in Northampton, MA, and they hold an M.A. in the history of art from the Courtauld Institute of Art in London.  

### Workshop Details

**Dates and Times:**   
Tues., Oct. 3 and Tues., Oct. 10, 2023  
11 a.m.-12:30 p.m. EDT  
  
**Location:**  
Online  
  
### Registration  
These workshops are open to current Yale graduate students, postdocs, faculty, and staff. You can register for each workshop session via Yale Connect at the following links:  
- Part I (Tues., Oct. 3, 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m.): please <a href='https://cglink.me/2dA/r2216734' target='_blank'>click here</a> to register through Yale Connect  
- Part II (Tues., Oct. 10, 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m.): please <a href='https://cglink.me/2dA/r2216682' target='_blank'>click here</a> to register through Yale Connect  
  
*Be among the first to know when future workshops are announced by signing up for the <a href='https://subscribe.yale.edu/browse?search=digital+humanities' target='_blank'>DHLab’s newsletter</a>.*
