---
title: "Workshop Series: AI Tools for Creative Practice"
date: 2024-10-08
dates:
  - 2024-10-08
  - 2024-10-10
time: 2-3 p.m. EDT
location: Online
thumbnail: /assets/images/events/ai-tools.jpg
alt: Photograph of two stools in an art studio, one with a tablet on top and the other with a can of paint on top
registerurl: https://cglink.me/2dA/r2281743
categories:
  - Workshop
tags:
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - Training
  - Visual Analysis
teaser: >
  Delve into the history, techniques, and ethics of generative AI art tools, then try them out yourself, in this two-part online workshop series for graduate students.
---
### AI Tools for Creative Practice: How to Become an Informed Creator and Consumer of AI-Generated Images
Explore the limitless potential of AI in the creative realm in this two-part workshop series, hosted by the Haas Arts Library and the DHLab. Whether you're an artist, writer, designer, or simply curious about the intersection of technology and creativity, this workshop is for you.  

*Note:* Although the two workshop sessions require separate registrations, we highly recommend registering for both as they are intended to build off of each other.  

#### Part 1: Exploring Visual Literacy and AI  
AI-generated images are everywhere—whether we are aware of them or not. In the first session of this workshop series, we will dive into visual literacy and AI. We will discuss how concerns of privacy, ownership, and consent are brought to the surface through new AI technology and come away with a better understanding of how to engage with visual images in an age where the line between image and reality is blurred.  

#### Part 2: Unleashing Creative Inspiration with AI Tools  
The second part of this workshop will provide an overview of generative AI tools that can be used to enhance your creative practice. Delve into the history and techniques of generative AI to understand how AI art tools work, then try them out yourself with guided examples.  
  
### About the Instructors  
**Tess Colwell** (she/her) is the Arts Librarian for Research Services at Robert B. Haas Family Arts Library. In that role, she supports student research in the Schools of Art & Architecture and the History of Art Department.  

**Gavi Levy Haskell** (they/she) is the DH Developer in Computational Methods and Data.  

### Workshop Details

**Dates and Times:**   
Tues., Oct. 8 and Thurs., Oct. 10, 2024 
2-3 p.m. EDT  
  
**Location:**  
Online  
  
### Registration  
All current Yale graduate students are welcome! You can register for each workshop session via Yale Connect at the following links:  
- Part I (Tues., Oct. 8, 2-3 p.m.): please <a href='https://cglink.me/2dA/r2281743' target='_blank'>click here</a> to register through Yale Connect  
- Part II (Thurs., Oct. 10, 2-3 p.m.): please <a href='https://cglink.me/2dA/r2281746' target='_blank'>click here</a> to register through Yale Connect  
  
*Be among the first to know when future workshops are announced by signing up for the <a href='https://subscribe.yale.edu/browse?search=digital+humanities' target='_blank'>DHLab’s newsletter</a>.*
